---
layout: post
title: SF
date: 2026-01-19
categories: 
---

I have been in SF since January 13th and I would like to make some observations on the city and what I've learned so far.

1. The statement that everybody in the tech/startup scene in SF is kind and helps each other is one hundred percent true, here are a few anecdotal examples:

    - I'm currently sitting in a co-working space in the Frontier Tower, which is a premier location, because my friend Sree who I met on a hike invited me as a guest and funnily enough he is currently talking with somebody that I intro'd him to in the next room.

    - On numerous occasions while having lunch or dinner with others, I've been asked about my interests and then subsequently if I'd like an intro to a given person because they might be aligned with what I'm looking for.

    - I got coffee with a few founders at Blue Bottle and they insisted and then paid for my espresso.

    - Overall everybody is very inclusive and welcoming, you get what you give.

2. For example, the simple fact that chutzpah is rewarded here strongly. What I mean is if you're audacious, then instead of being thought of as forward, you'll be rewarded because people will accept to meet you, if you cold solicit them with higher likelihood than other places. This has been my experience, up to now.

3. The fact that it is quite transactional, which is to say that even though I have been intentionally trying in some conversations not to just start talking about the person's startup instead of the person, it sometimes occurs that it somebody starts pitching you even though you don't really want to hear about their startup.

4. The bonafide optimism you experience here. When I was co-working at an office last Saturday, they were earnestly talking about longevity and cryogenics, which really was eye-opening to me because I had only heard of these concepts before in theoretical speak.

5. The network effects here are also insane and I've met people so far who know my friends from back home or from another program hitherto unbeknownst to me.

6. As I was told by Teddy from Founder's Embassy, discernment is the key in SF, which is to say there is a massive offering of events, meetups, etc. but knowing what's worth it and what isn't, is key.

Thanks to Sam who asked me last night at midnight in the Mission Dolores park what I have learnt so far while in SF, spurring me to write this.